---
permalink: /about/
title: "About"
---

# Shitanshu Bhushan

```
(734)-489-3421|sbhushan@umich.edu|linkedin.com/in/shitanshu|
```
## Education

## University of Michigan, Ann Arbor GPA - 4.

```
Master of Science in Data Science August 2023 – Present
```
## Birla Institute of Technology Mesra 83.0%

```
Bachelor of Engineering in Computer Science and Engineering July 2017 – June 2021
```
## Experience

## Data Engineering Analyst July 2021 – August 2023

```
Accenture
```
- Leveraged Azure Databricks and Azure Data Factory to develop business critical reporting solutions for a major
    FMCG’s Southeast Asia division.
- Optimized Scala based workloads. Improved performance by as much as 97% by using better data structures and
    incremental data handling.
- Spearheaded the development and implementation of data solution for a major business group of the FMCG client
    spanning five South Asian countries, resulting in shortened monthly operation process and greater visibility to
    required data. Led a team of 3 people and the data solution is being used by the region head.
- Collaborated closely with client to gather requirements and conducted feasibility analyses, showcasing strong
    interpersonal and communication skills in driving successful cross-country data integration project.

## Skills

```
Languages: Python, C/C++, SQL, R, Scala
Technical skills: Machine Learning, Deep Learning, Computer Vision, Reinforcement Learning, Ensemble Methods
Soft skills: Teamwork, Leadership, Adaptability, Quick Learner
Frameworks: Spark, PyTorch, Scikit-Learn, Pandas, NumPy, Matplotlib
Platforms: AWS, Azure, Databricks
```
## Certifications

## Databricks Certified Associate Developer for Apache Spark 3.0 Apr. 2023

- Demonstrated an understanding of the basics of the Apache Spark architecture and the ability to apply the Spark
    DataFrame API to complete individual data manipulation tasks.

## Projects

## Multilabel chest X-ray classification using PCA+FCN and EfficientNeXtV2 Oct. 2023 – Dec 2023

- Proposed two machine learning methods to classify chest X-rays for pneumonia detection to help doctors make
    quicker judgement. Dataset used was ChestX-ray14, comprising of 112,120 chest X-rays.
- Introduced a new deep-learning efficientNet architecture called EfficientNeXtV2 - a hybrid of EfficientNet and
    EfficientNetV2 with a Gaussian error linear unit (GELU) as an activation function. For training, we used SGD
    with momentum as our optimizer and as we had an imbalanced data ratio, we used Focal loss. The model was
    implemented using PyTorch.

## Data Augmentation using Generative Adversarial Networks Aug. 2020 – Dec.

- Implemented a Deep Convolutional Generative Adversarial Network (DCGAN) using dataset consisting of chest
    X-rays with the primary objective of creating similar images as those X-rays
- PyTorch was used to implement DCGAN and the model was trained on google colab. The final outcome images
    serve as a proof of concept that images generated by GANs could serve as additional data to train classification
    models so as to increase their accuracy

## Offline Reinforcement Learning for Autonomous Driving Feb. 2024 – May 2024

- Reinforcement learning project to use soft-actor critic conservative Q-learning implementation to clone human
    driving behavior and predict vehicle trajectories in complex roundabout scenarios.
- Leveraged the INTERACTION dataset to preprocess real-world driving data into{State, Action, Reward, Next
    State}tuples for training reinforcement learning agents. Developed a custom reward function that combines
    positional, velocity, and collision metrics to simulate human-like driving behavior.


